README.md, before:

[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/alphagov/specialist-publisher.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/alphagov/specialist-publisher)

# Specialist publisher

## Purpose

Publishing App for Specialist Documents and Manuals.

## Nomenclature

* Specialist Documents: Documents with metadata which are published to Finders
* Schema: JSON file defining slug, document noun and name of Specialist Document document_types. Also has select facets and their possible values for each document_type which are displayed by the `_form.html.erb`.
* Manual: Grouped Documents published as a number of sections inside a parent document

## Current formats

### Live

* [AAIB Reports](https://www.gov.uk/aaib-reports)
* [CMA Cases](https://www.gov.uk/cma-cases)
* [Countryside Stewardship Grants](https://www.gov.uk/countryside-stewardship-grants)
* [International Development Funds](https://www.gov.uk/international-development-funds)
* [Drug Safety Update](https://www.gov.uk/drug-safety-updates)
* [ESI Funds](https://www.gov.uk/esi-funds)
* [Medical Safety Alerts](https://www.gov.uk/drug-device-alerts)
* [MAIB Reports](https://www.gov.uk/maib-reports)
* [RAIB Reports](https://www.gov.uk/raib-reports)
* Manuals (there's no public index page for Manuals, they can all be found at `gov.uk/guidance/:manual-slug`)

## Dependencies

* [alphagov/static](http://github.com/alphagov/static): provides static assets (JS/CSS)
* [alphagov/asset-manager](http://github.com/alphagov/asset-manager): provides uploading for static files
* [alphagov/rummager](http://github.com/alphagov/rummager): allows documents to be indexed for searching in both Finders and site search
* [alphagov/publishing-api](http://github.com/alphagov/publishing-api): allows documents to be published to the Publishing queue
* [alphagov/email-alert-api](http://github.com/alphagov/email-alert-api): sends emails to subscribed users when documents are published

## Running the application

```
$ ./startup.sh
```
If you are using the GDS development virtual machine then the application will be available on the host at http://specialist-publisher.dev.gov.uk/

## Running the test suite

```
$ bundle exec rake
```

## Adding a new specialist document format

### In this repo

1. Add the document_type to the `document_types` array in `config/routes.rb`
1. Add a controller that inherits `AbstractDocumentsController`
1. Add the schema to the `finders/schemas` folder and define the singleton for it in `app/lib/specialist_publisher_wiring.rb`
1. Add the metadata about the Finder to `finders/metadata`. This can contain `"pre_production": true` to limit the Finder to the preview environment.
1. [Add an example](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/tree/master/formats/specialist_document/frontend/examples) of this format to govuk-content-schemas
1. Use the [finder schema converter](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/blob/master/docs/converting-finder-schemas.md) to modify the [`details.json`](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/blob/master/formats/specialist_document/publisher/details.json) to include the new format
1. Add a model (which is a subclass of `DocumentMetadataDecorator` and only defines the extra fields of the document type), validator and builder for the new format.
1. Define the factory with the builder in `app/lib/specialist_publisher_wiring.rb`.
1. Define the validatable document factory in `app/models/document_factory_registry.rb`
1. Define a repository in `app/repositories/repository_registry.rb`
1. Add observers, along with formatters required. In `app/exporters/formatters/`:
  - `document_type_publication_alert_formatter.rb`
  - `document_type_indexable_formatter.rb` for Rummager
  - `document_type_observers_registry.rb` in `app/observers/`
  Add the observer registry to the `observer_registry` hash in `app/lib/specialist_publisher.rb`
1. Add `app/view_adapters/document_type_view_adapter.rb` along with its entry in `app/view_adapters/view_adapter_registry.rb`. Also add the `_form.html.erb` which has the extra fields for that document_type. Be sure to pass the correct `form_namespace` matching the document_type.
1. Add the entry to `app/lib/permission_checker.rb` for the owning organisation and an entry in the finders array in `ApplicationController`.

### In [rummager](https://github.com/alphagov/rummager/)

1. Add the new document schema in `config/schema/document_types/`.
2. Add missing field definitions in `config/schema/field_definitions.json`.
3. Add the new document type in `config/schema/indexes/mainstream.json`.

### Testing your new specialist document format

We have a spec for each model but most of the testing is done in Cucumber tests. Each document format has a feature for creating & editing, publishing and withdrawing. Be sure to add an editor type to `test/factories.rb` for the owning Org of the newformat (if there isn't already a format owned by that Org). The step definitions in each of the tests are pretty similar, so the methods in `features/support/document_format_helpers.rb` call the abstract methods in `features/support/document_helpers.rb`. The features should also cover add attachments, if you follow the same pattern as the other document formats.


## Application Structure

### Directory Structure

Non standard Rails directories and what they're used for:

* `app/exporters`
  These export information to various GOV.UK APIs
  * `app/exporters/formatters`
    These are used by exporters to format information for transferring as JSON
* `app/importers`
  Generic code used when writing importers for scraped content of new document formats
* `app/models`
  Combination of Mongoid documents and Ruby objects for handling Documents and various behaviours
  * `app/models/builders`
    Ruby objects for building a new document by setting ID and subclasses for setting the document type, if needed
  * `app/models/validators`
    Not validators. Decorators for providing validation logic.
* `app/observers`
  Define ordered lists of exporters, called at different stages of a document's life cycle, for example, publication
* `app/presenters`
  Presenters used to format Finders for publishing to the Content Store
* `app/repositories`
  Provide interaction with the persistance layer (Mongoid)
* `app/services`
  Reusable classes for completing actions on documents
* `app/view_adapters`
  Provide classes which allow us to have Rails like form objects in views
* `app/workers`
  Classes for sidekiq workers. Currently the only worker in the App is for publishing Manuals as Manual publishing was timing out due to the large number of document objects inside a Manual


### Services

 Services do things such as previewing a document, creation, updating, showing, withdrawing, queueing. This replaces the normal Rails behaviour of completing these actions directly from a controller, instead we call a service registry.

Commit message:

Add question about purpose
Not clear that this is the big question so adding extra heading question

README.md, after:

[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/alphagov/specialist-publisher.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/alphagov/specialist-publisher)

# Specialist publisher

## Purpose

What's the purpose?

###There has to be some kind of purpose, surely?

Publishing App for Specialist Documents and Manuals.

## Nomenclature

* Specialist Documents: Documents with metadata which are published to Finders
* Schema: JSON file defining slug, document noun and name of Specialist Document document_types. Also has select facets and their possible values for each document_type which are displayed by the `_form.html.erb`.
* Manual: Grouped Documents published as a number of sections inside a parent document

## Current formats

### Live

* [AAIB Reports](https://www.gov.uk/aaib-reports)
* [CMA Cases](https://www.gov.uk/cma-cases)
* [Countryside Stewardship Grants](https://www.gov.uk/countryside-stewardship-grants)
* [International Development Funds](https://www.gov.uk/international-development-funds)
* [Drug Safety Update](https://www.gov.uk/drug-safety-updates)
* [ESI Funds](https://www.gov.uk/esi-funds)
* [Medical Safety Alerts](https://www.gov.uk/drug-device-alerts)
* [MAIB Reports](https://www.gov.uk/maib-reports)
* [RAIB Reports](https://www.gov.uk/raib-reports)
* Manuals (there's no public index page for Manuals, they can all be found at `gov.uk/guidance/:manual-slug`)

## Dependencies

* [alphagov/static](http://github.com/alphagov/static): provides static assets (JS/CSS)
* [alphagov/asset-manager](http://github.com/alphagov/asset-manager): provides uploading for static files
* [alphagov/rummager](http://github.com/alphagov/rummager): allows documents to be indexed for searching in both Finders and site search
* [alphagov/publishing-api](http://github.com/alphagov/publishing-api): allows documents to be published to the Publishing queue
* [alphagov/email-alert-api](http://github.com/alphagov/email-alert-api): sends emails to subscribed users when documents are published

## Running the application

```
$ ./startup.sh
```
If you are using the GDS development virtual machine then the application will be available on the host at http://specialist-publisher.dev.gov.uk/

## Running the test suite

```
$ bundle exec rake
```

## Adding a new specialist document format

### In this repo

1. Add the document_type to the `document_types` array in `config/routes.rb`
1. Add a controller that inherits `AbstractDocumentsController`
1. Add the schema to the `finders/schemas` folder and define the singleton for it in `app/lib/specialist_publisher_wiring.rb`
1. Add the metadata about the Finder to `finders/metadata`. This can contain `"pre_production": true` to limit the Finder to the preview environment.
1. [Add an example](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/tree/master/formats/specialist_document/frontend/examples) of this format to govuk-content-schemas
1. Use the [finder schema converter](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/blob/master/docs/converting-finder-schemas.md) to modify the [`details.json`](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/blob/master/formats/specialist_document/publisher/details.json) to include the new format
1. Add a model (which is a subclass of `DocumentMetadataDecorator` and only defines the extra fields of the document type), validator and builder for the new format.
1. Define the factory with the builder in `app/lib/specialist_publisher_wiring.rb`.
1. Define the validatable document factory in `app/models/document_factory_registry.rb`
1. Define a repository in `app/repositories/repository_registry.rb`
1. Add observers, along with formatters required. In `app/exporters/formatters/`:
  - `document_type_publication_alert_formatter.rb`
  - `document_type_indexable_formatter.rb` for Rummager
  - `document_type_observers_registry.rb` in `app/observers/`
  Add the observer registry to the `observer_registry` hash in `app/lib/specialist_publisher.rb`
1. Add `app/view_adapters/document_type_view_adapter.rb` along with its entry in `app/view_adapters/view_adapter_registry.rb`. Also add the `_form.html.erb` which has the extra fields for that document_type. Be sure to pass the correct `form_namespace` matching the document_type.
1. Add the entry to `app/lib/permission_checker.rb` for the owning organisation and an entry in the finders array in `ApplicationController`.

### In [rummager](https://github.com/alphagov/rummager/)

1. Add the new document schema in `config/schema/document_types/`.
2. Add missing field definitions in `config/schema/field_definitions.json`.
3. Add the new document type in `config/schema/indexes/mainstream.json`.

### Testing your new specialist document format

We have a spec for each model but most of the testing is done in Cucumber tests. Each document format has a feature for creating & editing, publishing and withdrawing. Be sure to add an editor type to `test/factories.rb` for the owning Org of the newformat (if there isn't already a format owned by that Org). The step definitions in each of the tests are pretty similar, so the methods in `features/support/document_format_helpers.rb` call the abstract methods in `features/support/document_helpers.rb`. The features should also cover add attachments, if you follow the same pattern as the other document formats.


## Application Structure

### Directory Structure

Non standard Rails directories and what they're used for:

* `app/exporters`
  These export information to various GOV.UK APIs
  * `app/exporters/formatters`
    These are used by exporters to format information for transferring as JSON
* `app/importers`
  Generic code used when writing importers for scraped content of new document formats
* `app/models`
  Combination of Mongoid documents and Ruby objects for handling Documents and various behaviours
  * `app/models/builders`
    Ruby objects for building a new document by setting ID and subclasses for setting the document type, if needed
  * `app/models/validators`
    Not validators. Decorators for providing validation logic.
* `app/observers`
  Define ordered lists of exporters, called at different stages of a document's life cycle, for example, publication
* `app/presenters`
  Presenters used to format Finders for publishing to the Content Store
* `app/repositories`
  Provide interaction with the persistance layer (Mongoid)
* `app/services`
  Reusable classes for completing actions on documents
* `app/view_adapters`
  Provide classes which allow us to have Rails like form objects in views
* `app/workers`
  Classes for sidekiq workers. Currently the only worker in the App is for publishing Manuals as Manual publishing was timing out due to the large number of document objects inside a Manual


### Services

 Services do things such as previewing a document, creation, updating, showing, withdrawing, queueing. This replaces the normal Rails behaviour of completing these actions directly from a controller, instead we call a service registry.
